# React, Next.js, Material-UI, TypeScript Repository Template

An opinionated Github Repository Template I use for my "Go To" tech stack. This gives a great starting point for Next.js projects with a mix of essentials and niceties. To use, simply click [Use Template] from the [Github Page](https://github.com/blainegarrett/react-next-material-typescript-template/).

The building of this template prior to 1.0 release is documented in my Hashnode series "[Building a Next.js/TypeScript Github Template Repo](https://hashnode.com/series/building-a-nextjstypescript-github-template-repo-ckcnotrc7003ajos1heei4bez)"

## Included 
 - React
 - Next.js
 - TypeScript 3.9
 - Material-UI
 - ESLint with airbnb defaults
 - Jest with separation
 - Environment variable support
 - PWA support


## Usage 
To create a new repository using this project as a template, simply simply click [Use Template] from the [Github Page](https://github.com/blainegarrett/react-next-material-typescript-template/) or use this [direct link](https://github.com/blainegarrett/react-next-material-typescript-template/generate).

**Bugs or Suggestions?** 
Found a bug or want to add a feature? [Open an issue](https://github.com/blainegarrett/react-next-material-typescript-template/issues) on Github. 


Once your repository is created and you have checked out project, modify or remove the following files to suite your needs.

#### Personalization
- **package.json** - Update with your project name, description, author, repo location, etc.
- **public/static/manifest.json** - Update your application short_name and name.
- **pages/_document.tsx** - Update your application name and description
- *src/theme/index.ts* - Update your Material-UI theme to your specifications
- *pages/index.tsx* and *src/screens/IndexContent.tsx* - Customize to your needs

#### Cleanup Boiler Plate
- *src/utils/* contains a simple module and tests that can be removed.
- *README.md* Delete everything above this line and update the project name and description below

---
---
---

# Project Name 
This is the project description

## Installation
Clone the project and cd into the working directory.
- Create a `.env.local` providing the the following values:
```
// Customize this to your project's needs
```
- To install dependencies, run `npm install`

## Developing Locally
To run the application on your local machine for development (hot model reloading, etc), simply run:
```
npm run dev
```
To specify a specific port to run the application, set the PORT environment variable:
```
 PORT=4040 npm run dev
```

## Production Build
To build a deployable production bundle:
```
npm run build
``` 
This will bundle assets into the *.next* folder. 

## Running Production Build Locally
To run the production build locally:
```
npm run start-local
```
This command pre-populates NODE_ENV and PORT to emulate running the application deployed. By default, the application will run on port 8080.

## Deploying
Provide your deploy instructions here. 
Note: Hosting service must be able to run `npm run start` with the NODE_ENV=production and PORT environment variable.

## Testing
Three test commands are provided. 

Run integration tests (just tests ending in "integration.test.ts")
```
npm run integration 
```

Run unit tests (not ending in "integration.test.ts")
```
npm run unit
```

Runs all tests and generates coverage report
```
npm run test 
```

# Linting
An ESLint report can be generated by running
```
npm run lint
```




